Add blog post: "Kubernetes v1.37: KYAML graduates to stable" (#56297)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026-08-26-kubernetes-v1-37-kyaml-enabled-by-default.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "Kubernetes v1.37: KYAML graduates to stable (GA)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes v1.37: KYAML Graduates to Stable (GA)"
```
Front matter title must use title case.

> date: 2026-08-26T10:30:00-08:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
draft: true
```
Blog guidelines say to use `draft: true` initially — the blog team sets the date before publication. Consider replacing the date with `draft: true` unless the blog team has already approved this date.

slug: kubernetes-v1-37-kyaml-enabled-by-default

> author: Tim Hockin (Google)

Reviewer 2: Author is who actually wrote the blog article, not who authored the feature 😉 . You can make Tim a co-author, that's totally fine, but don't forget to add yourself there too.

---

Kubernetes manifests are most commonly authored in YAML, a format whose
flexibility can introduce ambiguity and subtle errors. To address this, SIG CLI

> introduced KYAML, a Kubernetes-specific output format for `kubectl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
introduced [KYAML](/docs/reference/encodings/kyaml/), a Kubernetes-specific output format for `kubectl`.
```
A KYAML reference doc exists at `/docs/reference/encodings/kyaml/`. Link to it at the first mention so the blog is not the primary source of information for this feature.

With the release of Kubernetes v1.37, KYAML is now **stable**. As a generally
available feature, KYAML is a permanent part of `kubectl`, and its output format

> is now covered by Kubernetes' compatibility guarantees.

Reviewer: Add `<!--more-->` after this introductory paragraph to define the excerpt shown on the blog index page. Insert a blank line followed by `<!--more-->` between this paragraph and the first heading.

* Mappings (associative arrays) always use `{}`.
* Lists always use `[]`.

This explicit structure resembles JSON. Unlike JSON, however, KYAML supports
comments, permits trailing commas, and does not require keys to be quoted.

## Why KYAML?

KYAML addresses specific shortcomings in both YAML and JSON as formats for
describing Kubernetes objects.

YAML relies on significant whitespace, so an incorrect indentation can change
the meaning of a document or render it invalid. In addition, YAML's optional
string-quoting can lead to unintended type coercion. A well-known example is
["The Norway Bug"](https://hitchdev.com/strictyaml/why/implicit-typing-removed/),
in which the country code `NO` is interpreted as the boolean `false`.

JSON is not whitespace-sensitive, but it has its own limitations: it does not
support comments, does not tolerate trailing commas, and requires every key to
be quoted.

KYAML combines JSON's explicit, unambiguous structure with the conveniences of
YAML. The result is output that is unambiguous and, because it is not
whitespace-sensitive, straightforward to edit and patch in tools such as Helm.

## How it works

> KYAML is a `kubectl` output format, requested with the `-o` (or `--output`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You request KYAML output with the `-o` (or `--output`)
```
Passive voice ("requested with").

flag, in the same way as YAML or JSON:

```shell
kubectl get service hostnames -o kyaml
```

The output looks like this:

```yaml
---
{
  apiVersion: "v1",
  kind: "Service",
  metadata: {
    labels: {
      app: "hostnames",
    },
    name: "hostnames",
    namespace: "default",
  },
  spec: {
    clusterIP: "10.0.162.160",
    ports: [{
      port: 80,
      protocol: "TCP",
      targetPort: 9376,
    }],
    selector: {
      app: "hostnames",
    },
    type: "ClusterIP",
  },
}
```

Note the braces around every mapping, the brackets around the list, the
double-quoted string values, and the trailing commas. Because the structure is
explicit, the document can be reindented without changing its meaning.

### Requesting KYAML output

KYAML is available wherever `-o yaml` or `-o json` can be used, for example:

```shell
kubectl get pods -o kyaml
kubectl get deployment nginx -o kyaml

> kubectl get configmap my-config -o kyaml

Reviewer 2: Nit: maybe use several different commands, not just `kubectl get` with 3 various resources, to actually match the statement above?

```

> YAML and JSON output remain available. KYAML is an additional format, not a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
YAML and JSON outputs remain available. KYAML is an additional format, not a
```

replacement.

### Migrating from the environment variable

During the alpha stage (v1.34), requesting KYAML required setting
`KUBECTL_KYAML="true"` before `kubectl` would accept `-o kyaml`. Beginning with
the beta in v1.35, KYAML became enabled by default and the environment variable
was no longer required.

> Any existing `KUBECTL_KYAML` setting left over from the alpha stage can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can remove any existing `KUBECTL_KYAML` setting left over from the alpha stage from
```
Passive voice ("can be removed").

removed from a shell profile or CI configuration. Leaving it in place has no
effect.

## What changed in v1.37

The primary change is that **KYAML has graduated to stable**. KYAML was
already enabled by default as of the beta in v1.35; v1.37 promotes it from beta
to general availability. In practice this means:

* KYAML is now a permanent part of `kubectl`.
* Its output format is covered by Kubernetes' compatibility guarantees, so the
  rendering will not change in backwards-incompatible ways. You can rely on it
  in scripts, diffs, and other tooling.
* There is no feature gate to enable and no environment variable to set.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth adding here, we'll be slowly adjusting our official docs to switch over to kyaml?

strict subset of YAML, and Kubernetes continues to accept ordinary YAML and JSON
as input. The way manifests are written is unaffected, and there are no plans to
change it.

## Examples

The following shows the same Kubernetes object rendered in three formats.

YAML (`-o yaml`):

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: game-config
  namespace: default
data:
  player_initial_lives: "3"
  ui_properties_file_name: "user-interface.properties"
```

JSON (`-o json`):

```json
{
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "kind": "ConfigMap",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "game-config",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "data": {
    "player_initial_lives": "3",
    "ui_properties_file_name": "user-interface.properties"
  }
}
```

KYAML (`-o kyaml`):

```yaml
---
{
  apiVersion: "v1",
  kind: "ConfigMap",
  metadata: {
    name: "game-config",
    namespace: "default",
  },
  data: {
    player_initial_lives: "3",
    ui_properties_file_name: "user-interface.properties",
  },
}
```

In the KYAML output, `player_initial_lives` is unambiguously the string `"3"`
rather than an integer, which is precisely the kind of ambiguity KYAML is
designed to eliminate.

## How do I get involved?

> KYAML was developed by [SIG CLI](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SIG CLI](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-cli) developed KYAML.
```
Passive voice ("was developed by").

For further detail, see [KEP-5295](https://kep.k8s.io/5295) and the
[`kubectl` reference documentation](/docs/reference/kubectl/).

> Feedback from users is welcome. SIG CLI can be reached on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feedback from users is welcome. You can reach SIG CLI on the
```
Passive voice ("can be reached").
